Let's go ahead and walk through setting up a new customer master key in AWS,
deciding permissions, using a key policy,
and then testing to see if we can use the keys to encrypt or decrypt data.
So I'll go ahead and log in to my database account,
and I will assume a role that has permissions to manage KMS,
and we'll call this the KMS-Admin-Role.
So I'm already logged in. I'm going to assume a role
that I've set up that's called KMS-Admin-Role.
This role is specifically to manage KMS keys.
I'm going to create a new key.
So I'm going to go to the key management service.
So I'll go ahead and create a new key.
This key will be used for encryption operations
for data related to a specific application.
So I'm going to choose to make this a symmetric key,
and I'm going to choose to have KMS create and manage the key material for me.
As you can see, I have other operations here.
I can import the key from an external source or I can use custom key store.
Give my key a name.
I will choose a role from my account to be able to have permissions to manage the key,
which means that they can change permissions on the key or
schedule the key for deletion if I choose this option.
So I'm going to choose myself to manage the key.
Next, I will need to designate roles that will need to be able to use the encryption key.
So I'm going to choose cand-c3-application-ddb-read role.
This is the application role that will be reading data from an encrypted table,
so it'll need the ability to perform decrypt and encrypt operations on the data.
So let's take a look at the key policy before we create the key.
The first section here allows IAM principles to be assigned privileges to manage the key.
What this means is that IAM policies can provide
permissions to a user or role to perform actions on the key.
If this is removed, then the key can only be managed through
the key policy by the role or roles who have been designated as key admins.
The second portion provides the ability for selected IAM principles to manage the key.
In this case, this is the key admin role.
The third section provides the ability to
select which IAM principles can use the key for cryptographic operations.
In this case, it's the application role.
Finally, all the way at the bottom,
we provide the ability for
the same IAM principle to grant permission to AWS services to use the key.
What this means is that if the application role is interacting with the DynamoDB service,
it can grant the DynamoDB service
its own permissions to use the encryption key to perform the underlying operations.
Let's go ahead and create the key,
and it's not let me create the key because I'm using
a different role than the role I had assigned for managing the key.
So I'm going to go back and I'm going to
go back to the page which allows me to define who the key administrators are.
I'm going to choose this role,
KMS-Admin-Role. There it is.
Now, let's just verify that it's the KMS-Admin-Role.
Looks good, and the key was created.
So this is the key that we just created,
and we're going to use this for our application.
So let's go ahead and take a look at
the two DynamoDBs tables that I have created for this walk-through.
I'm going to have to switch from my key admin role back to myself because
the key admin role does not have permissions to view DynamoDB tables.
Let's go into DynamoDB and take a look at our tables.
So I have two tables here,
recipes and user info.
Now when a DynamoDB table is created,
it will use DynamoDB default encryption.
With default encryption, encryption is handled behind the scenes by AWS,
and we can not manage the access to the encryption keys.
So anyone with access to
the DynamoDB tables will be able to view the data with this encryption setting.
Both of these tables should be set to the default encryption setting.
So let's just confirm that.So encryption type is set to default for this table.
Let's look at the user_info table,
and the encryption type is default here also.
So I would like one of these tables to use the KMS key that I just created.
So I'd like the user_info table to use the KMS key that I just created.
So I'm going to manage the key from here,
I'm going to change it from default to KMS- Customer managed, CMK.
This is the key that we created.
From the drop-down, I'll find the key that I created.
So the first one here, cand-c3-application-key,
takes a few minutes to update, there we go.
So now you can see the master key that's using is from KMS.
So now let's add some data to this table.
Right now, there's no data in the table.
I'm going to add a JSON record with
some personal information such as a username and a phone number.
Here's some personal information that we want to keep protected.
So now I want to prove that this data is indeed secure.
So I'm going to switch roles to
a different role that has full permissions to read and write data to DynamoDB tables.
This role does not have permissions to use the encryption key.
So this is the role I'm going to use, it's the dynamodb-full.
So this role has full permissions on DynamoDB,
but it has not been granted permissions to use the encryption key.
So as you can see,
when this role tries to look at the data in the table,
it does not have permissions.
The reason for this is because it doesn't have permissions to perform
decrypt operations on the data that was encrypted with that KMS key.
You can still read the data in the other table which had default encryption.
So let's see what happens if we have an application that will
need to read data from the table.
So I'm going to go onto my EC2 instance where I have an application running.
Let's switch back to my admin user,
and this is my EC2 instance where the application is going to run.
As you can see, it has a role.
I want to change this role to use a role that has permissions to read DynamoDB tables.
So this role will allow the instance to use the encryption keys.
So this is the application ddb-read role.
Just to be on the safe side,
I want to verify in KMS that that role does have access to use the key.
So this is the key that I had created.
As you can see, that's the role of the instance.
So now I'm going to log into the instance and try to read data from that table.
Let mes use the session manager to get onto the instance.
So I'm going to use a command from the AWS CLI,
and this would be analogous to an application running similar code.
I'm going to try to view the data in the user_info table that I had created,
had named the data_user_info_kms_encryption.
As you can see, I'm able to list the contents of the table successfully.
So in this walk-through, we have successfully demonstrated the use
of a KMS customer master key policy in action.
In the lecture notes, you'll find links to documentation and further examples of
using key policies and other methods to secure access to encryption keys.